Image Testing 2.0 (#4)
OpenSpace/OpenSpace-VisualTesting: README.md

# VisualTesting

> The visual testing infrastructure is split into two components that are both described in this document. The goal for this infrastructure is to be able to consistently run regression tests against OpenSpace to ensure that the visual quality of the `master` branch does not change over time, thus preventing bugs. It is also useful as a respository of in-game images from OpenSpace that can be used to show what features OpenSpace has.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The visual testing infrastructure is split into two components that are both described in this document. The goal for this infrastructure is to be able to consistently run regression tests against OpenSpace to ensure that the visual quality of the `master` branch does not change over time, thus preventing bugs. It is also useful as a repository of in-game images from OpenSpace that can be used to show what features OpenSpace has.
```

Important terms to understand the testing results:

>   - "Group": A group combines several tests into a logical unit where it makes sense that individual tests are collected. Groups, for example, can be individual profiles or usage scenarios, or describe the intended usecase for the generated images. The group names in general are extracted from the folder structure of the visual test files in the OpenSpace folder.

Reviewer: Suggestion to make this bullet list a table instead, for better readability:)

>   - "Name": The name of an individual test inside a group. The combination of "Group" + "Name" should be considered the full name of the test, so if the group mentioned "Apollo 11", there no need to separately mention "Apollo 11" in the name of the test again. The name of a test has to be unique within a group but can be reused between groups. For example, there can only be one "landing" test inside the "Apollo 11" group, but there might be a "landing" test inside the "Apollo 12" group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "Name": The name of an individual test inside a group. The combination of "Group" + "Name" should be considered the full name of the test, so if the group mentioned "Apollo 11", there is no need to separately mention "Apollo 11" in the name of the test again. The name of a test has to be unique within a group but can be reused between groups. For example, there can only be one "landing" test inside the "Apollo 11" group, but there might be a "landing" test inside both the "Apollo 12" and the "Apollo 11" groups.
```

  - "Hardware": The description of a hardware setup that was used to run a specific test. For regular test runners, this name should be of the form "operating system"-"graphics card vendor", for example "windows-nvidia", "linux-nvidia", "windows-amd", etc.

>   - "Reference image": A known-good image that has been vetted as a reference for future images. Any future deviation from this reference image will be considered an error. It is possible to update the reference image to the latest candidate image on the webpage using an administrative password. There is always at least one reference image for each group+name+hardware combination, but multiple reference are kept over time, if legimitate changes to the reference image had to be made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "Reference image": A known, good image that has been vetted as a reference for future images. Any future deviation from this reference image will be considered an error. It is possible to update the reference image to the latest candidate image on the webpage using an administrative password. There is always at least one reference image for each group+name+hardware combination, but multiple reference are kept over time, if legitimate changes to the reference image had to be made.
```

>   - "Candidate image": A newly created image that is tested against the current reference image and from which a difference image and an error score is calculated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - "Candidate image": A newly created image that is tested against the current reference image. This test generates a difference image and an error score.
```

  - "Difference image": An image that shows the pixel differences between the reference image and a candidate image.

## Runner

> The _Runner_ is a Python script that will execute and possibly submit test results to a regression server. To execute the _Runner_, the `requests` and `openspace-api` PIP packages need to be installed, for example using `pip install requests && pip install openspace-api`. The `main.py` inside the `runner` folder can then be called to run individual tests. Executing `main.py --help` will return all commandline parameters that can be used to customize the program execution. The available commandline arguments are as follows:

Reviewer: Suggestion to make this bullet list a table instead, for better readability:)

  - `--dir`: Points to the base folder of the OpenSpace version that is used to execute the tests. There needs to be a compiled version of OpenSpace available in that folder such that `bin/RelWithDebInfo/OpenSpace.exe` (on Windows) or `bin/OpenSpace` (on Linux) exists and is executable. The base test folder will also be taken from this parameter as `tests/visual`
  - `--test`: A comma-separated list of the group/name combination of the tests that should be run. The group of a test is all of the folders relative to the `tests/visual` server concatenated with the name of the test being the filename. For example a test in `tests/visual/mars/insight/landing.ostest` would have the group "mars/insight" and the name "landing"

>   - `--overwrite`: This path can be provided to store commonly used files that can be useful to keep between test runs. Right now, this is only used for the Sync folder and the MRF cache used by OpenSpace

Reviewer: An example would be great here, on how to use overwrite

Additionally, a `config.json` must be provided if tests are to be submitted to the regression server. The `config.sample.json` provides a stub that can be used as the starting point for configuring the JSON file.

If no `config.json` is found, all tests are run locally and are not submitted to the regression server. Instead all resulting images are stored in a `tests` folder whose subfolders mimick the folder structure found in the `tests/visual` folder, resulting in images that can be manually inspected.

> If a `config.json` is provided, it requires the specification of the URL at which the regression server is located, the hardware string under which the test images are submitted, and a runner id that has to be provided by the administrator of the regression test server. If all these values are correct, test images are directly submitted to the regression server and be used to compare against a reference image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `config.json` is provided, it requires the specification of the URL at which the regression server is located, the hardware string under which the test images are submitted, and a runner id that has to be provided by the administrator of the regression test server. If all these values are correct, test images are directly submitted to the regression server and can be used to compare against a reference image.
```

## Backend
The _backend_ is a Typescript-based server that is receiving individual tests, creating comparison images, and making past tests available via a website. By default this server is located at https://regression.openspaceproject.com, but it is also possible to run a local copy of it.

To run the regression server locally:
  1. Run `npm install` in the `backend` folder to install all required packages
  1. Run `tsc` in the `backend` folder to compile Typescript into Javascript
  1. Duplicate the `config.sample.json` into `config.json`
  1. Run `npm run server` to start the hosting of the regression server
  1. Visit `localhost:8000` (or whichever port was configured in the `config.json`) and an empty webpage should be visible

> To be able to receive test images, at least one `runners` id in the `config.json` has to be configured, which then also has to be provided in the _Runner_s `config.json`.

Reviewer: For me the _Runner_s doesn't compile to italics in vscode. Also should it be formatted the same as `runners` ?

Author: The first `runners` is referring the the key in the JSON object, whereas the second Runner's is referring to the Python application.  Fixed the second italics

### API
The backend has a number of API calls available that can be used to query the previous tests, submit new tests, or just run tests manually. A full list and explanations of all API calls is available at the `/api` endpoint (for example https://regression.openspaceproject.com/api).

### Folder structure
The server stores all of the test results inside a folder whose location is specified by the `data` value in the `config.json`. In the `config.sample.json`, this folder is also called `data`. The server will create three folders and one text file inside the `data` folder.

  - `audit.txt`: This file contains a list of all of the high-level functions that the server has been asked to perform. These entries are time-stamped and are stored to reason about the changes that have been made to the server, for example by submitting a new test, upgrading a candidate image to a reference image, etc.

>   - `temporary`: This temporary folder will contain files that are only valid for a limited time and include, for example, comparison images between different hardware setups, that are generated, returned, and then cached for a short amount. In general it is always save to delete any file inside this folder and the server will continue to function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `temporary`: This temporary folder will contain files that are only valid for a limited time and include, for example, comparison images between different hardware setups, that are generated, returned, and then cached for a short time. In general it is always safe to delete any file inside this folder and the server will continue to function.
```

>   - `reference`: This folder contains all of the reference images for the different tests. Each test is stored in subfolders according to their group and their name, with the reference images stored in the leaffolder with the timestamp as a filename. For example for the "apollo-8" group and the "earthrise" name, a potential reference image would be `data/reference/apollo-8/earthrise/20240101T120000Z.png` and a later reference image would be `data/reference/apollo-8/earthrise/20240102T120000Z.png`. Additionally this folder contains a `ref.txt` which contains the name of the reference file that is currently used as the "active" reference image used to compare candidate images to. Lastly, each reference image also has a `-thumbnail` version that is a reduced-size version of the reference image that the server utilizes in overview pages, where a full resolution is not required. The scale factor used for the thumbnail images is configured in the `config.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `reference`: This folder contains all of the reference images for the different tests. Each test is stored in subfolders according to their group and their name, with the reference images stored in the leaf folder with the timestamp as a filename. For example for the "apollo-8" group and the "earthrise" name, a potential reference image would be `data/reference/apollo-8/earthrise/20240101T120000Z.png` and a later reference image would be `data/reference/apollo-8/earthrise/20240102T120000Z.png`. Additionally this folder contains a `ref.txt` which contains the name of the reference file that is currently used as the "active" reference image used to compare candidate images to. Lastly, each reference image also has a `-thumbnail` version that is a reduced-size version of the reference image that the server utilizes in overview pages, where a full resolution is not required. The scale factor used for the thumbnail images is configured in the `config.json`.
```

>   - `tests`: This folder contains all of the candidate images and derived data products. Subfolders here are of the form `hardware/group/name/timestamp`, which is a folder that then contains all of the necessary files for that specific test run. In general this folder contains between 2 and 5 different files. At a minimum, the folder contains a `data.json` file which stores information about the test run, such as the pixel error, the timestamp, how long the test took to run, the commit hash, and the name of the reference image that was the active image at the time when the test was submitted, the candidate image, and resulting difference image from the test. The `candidate.png` is the submitted candidate picture, a `candidate-thumbnail.png` is a reduced-size version of the submitted image. The `difference.png` is an image that shows the pixel difference between the candidate iamge and the reference image. The image is grayscale where two pixels are the same, and red where the pixels disagree. Similarly, the `difference-thumbnail.png` is a reduced-size version of the `difference.png`. In case the candidate image is a duplicate of a previous image (for example if a test run results in exactly the same result multiple times), the `candidate.png` is not stored multiple times, but a newer test instead will refer to the first instance the candidate image was submitted. Similarly, the difference image is not stored if it is pixel-identical to an already existing difference image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `tests`: This folder contains all of the candidate images and derived data products. Subfolders here are of the form `hardware/group/name/timestamp`, which is a folder that then contains all of the necessary files for that specific test run. In general this folder contains between 2 and 5 different files. At a minimum, the folder contains a `data.json` file which stores information about the test run. This information can for example be the pixel error, the timestamp, how long the test took to run, the commit hash, the candidate image, the resulting difference image from the test, and the name of the reference image that was the active image at the time when the test was submitted. The `candidate.png` is the submitted candidate picture, a `candidate-thumbnail.png` is a reduced-size version of the submitted image. The `difference.png` is an image that shows the pixel difference between the candidate image and the reference image. The image is grayscale where two pixels are the same, and red where the pixels disagree. Similarly, the `difference-thumbnail.png` is a reduced-size version of the `difference.png`. In case the candidate image is a duplicate of a previous image (for example if a test run results in exactly the same result multiple times), the `candidate.png` is not stored multiple times, but a newer test instead will refer to the first instance the candidate image was submitted. Similarly, the difference image is not stored if it is pixel-identical to an already existing difference image.
```
